[Music]
okay sing it with me now
dun dun dun
[Music]
now do I still need to tell you what
I'll be talking about today
yo sharks they're the reason you
couldn't get me into any body of water
larger than a bathtub until I was a
teenager and even then the possibility
is never far from my mind so believe me
when I tell you before any trip to the
beach I always take some time to review
what I should do if I happen to
encounter one admittedly I've been
swimming in the ocean for years and I've
never actually gotten a glimpse of that
terrifying tail fin off in the horizon
but I did get stung by a jellyfish once
and I'm pretty embarrassed to tell you
that at the moment I may have thought I
was about to be chomped but here's the
thing out of the nearly 500 different
species of shark that inhabit the oceans
today only a dozen or so have ever been
known to go after humans and even in
those cases it's only believed to have
happened because the shark was confused
or curious so despite what movies like
jaws or the Meg have shown us over the
years
there aren't any sharks roaming near the
shoreline looking for people to eat
sharks are indeed opportunists when it
comes to their meals but they tend to
prefer smaller fish and invertebrates
when it comes to us it's an old cliche
but it rings true they're more scared of
you than you are of them before I go
into what to do if you happen upon a
shark here are a few quick tips to
decrease those chances first always swim
with a group sharks are significantly
less likely to go after a group than a
solitary person but if the shark goes
after the group have confidence that you
don't have to be the fastest swimmer
just faster than the other guy yes I'm
kidding
second avoid the water at dawn dusk or
night unless the water is in your
swimming pool then you're fine but
seriously sharks are most
during these times and are more likely
to spot you before you spot them avoid
wearing shiny jewelry this can have the
unintended effect of making you into a
human fishing lure if you're bleeding at
all it's best to stay out of the ocean
altogether sharks can smell blood from
at least 500 yards away if not more and
can easily track its source finally
avoid areas that are being heavily
fished by people or birds the fish that
people or seagulls are looking for are
the same kind that sharks like to look
for - still anything is possible when
you're out in the deep blue sea so if
you do see a shark here's the plan if
you see a shark while you're in the
ocean
don't freak out keeping your cool is
good advice in any stressful situation
and well it's always easier said than
done just remember you watch this
awesome bright side video about what to
do if you see a shark and you got this
okay with our calm and clear heads it's
time to assess the situation if it's
possible to calmly get yourself out of
the water do that until sharks learn to
walk and breathe air the best place to
avoid a shark is obviously to get to
where they can't go and to be redundant
and repetitive you want to make your
escape as calmly as possible if you
start splashing around like crazy you're
only going to draw the attention of the
big fish and that's the opposite of what
you want to do of course sharks are more
likely to be around the deeper and more
open parts of the water so a simple and
quiet trip back to the shore isn't the
likely option this makes not drawing
attention to yourself even more
important avoid sudden movements that
said if there are people around it's a
good idea to let them know what's
happening so they can help or if they
didn't watch this video let them freak
out and distract the shark for you just
kidding
sort of you'll probably want to scream
but don't do that either
still if others are close enough speak
loudly enough for them to hear so they
can help
try to keep the shark in front of you
sharks are known as ambush predators
meaning they prefer to get to their prey
by surprise if it knows you're aware of
it it's more likely to be aware of you
and as I already said you aren't a
favorite on the Sharks menu if the shark
does manage to get close to you make and
maintain eye contact and if that sounds
terrifying don't worry there's a good
chance if you stare into each other's
eyes long enough maybe you'll fall in
love
yes I'm joking but this can also help
the shark to recognize you as something
other than lunch if it recognizes you're
a person it's likely going to react the
way I do to brussel sprouts at a buffet
and move right along to something else
as it's swimming by you may want to curl
up into a ball so that you seem peaceful
and won't be confused for something it
does want to eat like a seal if you
can't get away and the shark begins to
circle or a zigzag around you it's time
to go into survival mode in this
instance try to make yourself appear as
large as possible hopefully this will
make it think twice before coming for
you and move along you may consider
playing possum but this is a terrible
idea and makes you more vulnerable if
things turn aggressive and if they do
you need to be willing to fight for your
life you may have heard that shocking a
shark in the nose is the way to go and
if that's your only option it's better
than nothing still consider that right
under the shark nose is a shark mouth
and that's not where you want to be if
you happen to have a camera or a snorkel
consider using this to go after the eyes
or the gills this will work if you don't
have anything else and with any luck
aiming for these sensitive areas will be
enough to startle the shark and scare it
off long enough for you to make your
escape it's important to remember what I
touched on at the start sharks just
aren't that into you
even if you swim in the ocean regularly
statistically speaking you have a better
chance of an aggressive interaction with
a cow or a horse
than you do with a shark admittedly
those numbers get higher if you're a
deep-sea diver by profession but if you
are I'm not telling you anything you
don't know
the fact is sharks are a vital part of
the oceans food chain without them that
chain would fall apart and who knows
what would happen to our oceans
ecosystem many species like the
Hammerhead are critically endangered so
if you do come across one stay cool and
only defend yourself if necessary
chances are you're going to be just fine
while it swims away and you'll have an
amazing story to tell for a long long
time finally in Las Vegas there are
certain card sharks you'll also want to
avoid but that's for another video
hey how about you do you like to swim in
the ocean let me know down in the
comments if you learn something new
today then give this video a like and
share it with a friend but hey don't go
away as I always say it's better to have
lunch with a shark than to be lunch for
a shark besides we have over 2,000 cool
videos for you to check out all you have
to do is choose the left or right video
click on it and enjoy stay on the bright
side of life